Yes, we had, like I say, the congressmen and the
people that control the purse strings telling the
military that they had to conduct a war a certain
way. If you're going to win a war, you've got to do
whatever means are available to you to win that
war. In Vietnam, the Viet Cong and the North
Vietnamese Army, once they found that they were
being defeated, they would retreat into either
Cambodia or north of Vietnam. The U.S. military
did not have the authority to attack them in these
places. Once they retreated, they could not be
followed. Once they retreated, they couldn't be
bombed. We were, and when I say we, I'm talking
about the Congress and a lot of your general public
wanted to fight a war with world opinion on our
side. We were not allowed to bomb North Vietnam,
even though Hanoi was at different times bombed.
This could only be done on certain times. What I'm
saying is the military was trying to fight a war
with one hand tied behind its back. The military
takes their professionalism serious. However,
when their authority is questioned daily, their
ability to conduct a war becomes very, very
limited. That is one of the reasons that we lost the
war and more than likely A large percentage of the
reasons. Another reason that I feel that
contributed significantly
to the
losing the war effort was the general soldier's
attitude towards the war, even though I've
mentioned on several occasions that the average
soldier going over there was a volunteer, and he
did it because it was a thing to do. He did it for
professional reasons. The military afforded him
the opportunity to lose a lot of that sense of
professionalism.
in Vietnam, as opposed to World War Two, where a
person would go for the duration of the war. In
Vietnam, the soldier was sent over for a 12 month
period of time on a tour. The majority of us went
over with the impression that we're going to be
there for one year. We are going to become back
after a year because it never entered our mind that
we were going over there to be killed. We knew that
we were going over there to fight a war. Some even
anticipated going over there to war. They looked
forward to it, not really knowing what they were
going to encounter other than maybe what they saw
in the movies or on television.
And again, it was one of those things where they
were not going to be the ones killed. It was always
going to happen to somebody else.
We went over there with the impression anyhow that
we were going to be over there for a year. And we
weren't very professional about it. Every
soldier, or a great number of soldiers, would go
out and get drunk just about every night. Beer was
prevalent in Vietnam. wasn't available in the
economy, the military made great effort to bring
beer out to the soldiers, even close to the war
zone. I think I can honestly say that the beer
itself was not brought out to the battle line.
However, war was not being fought 24 hours a day,
365 days a year. It was being fought during short
periods of time where, after the battle, the
soldier would return to a garrison environment.
The garrison environment had a lot of beer in it,
either right there in the military compound or off
the military compound. Whenever a soldier, a
person, drains excessively and suffers from a
withdrawal, a hangover,
his proficiency, his sufficiency is going to
diminish. Consequently, I think that drugs, even
though, like I mentioned, during my period of
time, the hard drugs were not there. However, they
were prevalent throughout the latter half of the
Vietnam War. I think that drugs had a big thing to do
about losing the war.
Also of major significance, I think, was the lack
of respect
that we got from the Vietnamese. Like I mentioned,
this was a guerrilla type of a war. If you're going
to win a war like that, you have to have the general
populace the indigent support. If you do not have
their support, then you might as well pack it up and
go home. We did not respect the Vietnamese. We
didn't like the Vietnamese. I am sure that they did
not respect us. More than likely, they didn't like
us. They liked our money, but they did not support
us. They had a bigger propaganda effort They had a
public figure, Ho Chi Minh, who they all respected
to look up to. We could provide them with nothing.
Even their elected, and they were not elected,
even their government was not well liked. So
consequently, when we did not receive the public
support, the Viet Cong found it easy, and so did the
North Vietnamese Army, to hide within the general
populace. The general population did not provide
us with the information because they supported
the opposing side. This had a big thing to do with us
losing the war. Those three things are the
military having to fight a war with one hand tied
behind their back, the drugs, and the lack of
support by the local, national, of the Republic of
Vietnam. I'd like to thank you for sharing your
experiences with me. In closing, would you like to
add any remarks? Only that I'd like to say that what
I have said is things that I have, are personal
experiences that my thoughts do not necessarily
are
the thoughts of any other person. These are things
that I picked up from personal experience that I
picked up from my observations.
I want to thank you for letting me conduct this
interview and I hope that we do not have to suffer
one of these experiences again. Thank you.